Does identity matter?
Should you care
which future thing
you are numerically
identical with?
If so, why?
This question arises because
we've been discussing
biological continuity views
of personal identity.
And it seems quite compelling to
think that if biological
continuity views are right,
then which thing you're
numerically identical with
doesn't really matter for which
thing you're morally responsible
for. And in that case, it seems
that the issue of personal
identity isn't one that we
should really care about.
In any interesting
practical sense.
So that's where we are now.
Let's take a look at what the
philosopher Olson says. So Olson
recall is a defender of
biological continuity views. And
here's what he says.
But before you read it, now
that you might have the
feeling that there are just
too many words here.
It turns out you can cut quite a
lot of words and still get the
point, and I'd like to do this.
I think philosophers, perhaps
many writers, use too many
words, not Jane Austen. Not the
Great writers, but ordinary
writers use too many words. One
thing that you and I can
usefully do is just get rid of
some of those words. Makes it
easier to read and easier to
understand. Sure, sometimes when
I take words out, I destroy the
sense, or I make a mess of
things, but it's still a good.
Exercise for me to try to do
this and understand it sometimes
realizing. That I've made a
mistake by cutting things out.
It's quite illuminating. OK, so
cut words out. Here's the
shorter also. If, says Olson
practical concerns are closely
connected with psychological
continuity. Then the
biological approach does have
an ethical consequence, namely
that those practical relations
are not necessarily connected
with numerical identity.
Some really awesome saying the
biological approach. Kind of
has the consequence that
ethical stuff isn't related
to personal identity at all.
So earlier we had this
inconsistent triad for the view.
Of biological continuity
about personal identity.
The idea is that we can't
have these three claims
and hold them all true.
They can't all be true at once.
So we can say that where Tom and
Asia swap brains for a day, and
as you remember Tom Rob the
bank. We can't say we could say
that Tom is responsible.
For the actions performed in
Irish's body of robbing the
bank, we can say that you're
only responsible for the
actions of things that
numerically identical with
you. We can say that the
biological continuity view of
personal identity is correct.
Remember what that says.
We can't say that all three
claims are true.
Now the passage that I just
mentioned from Olsun. That one.
Is really a defense.
Or contains it offensive
biological continuity view in
that passage also and is
implicitly rejecting one of
these three claims. What I want
you to do, ideally with a
partner or some partners, is
tell me which of these three
claims is also in rejecting.
90 seconds go.
OK, so I hope that you've had a
good thing to talk about that,
and if you've been writing about
that for me, I'm looking forward
to seeing what you've said. Well
done good. So also is clearly
rejecting the second claim here.
The claim that you're only
responsible for things done by.
Things that are numerically
identical to you.
I think there's a problem with
rejecting this, and the problem
is that. It wasn't me.
Seems like a very good excuse.
So you say, look, Steve, you're
you're guilty of driving into my
car. And I say it wasn't me, and
that seems like I'm.
If what I'm saying is true.
I'm not guilty.
But maybe there's a way around
that, so that's that's the
challenge for Alstom rejecting
this claim, but certainly also
wants to reject this claim. And
surely he and some of the other
philosophers have got some very
smart things to say about that.
Now, if we do reject that claim.
Then we can see how the
biological continuity view
of personal identity could
be satisfactory.